doc/Configuration.adoc, before:

:toc:
:toclevels: 4

ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

= The cmake_check configuration file

This document is all you need to know about what's required in your cmake_check configuration file. 
It must be actual JSON, not just a JavaScript object literal. It contains of one JSON object, its
members are described in the following sections.

As a reference, a commented JSON link:../res/config.schema.json[schema] exists.

An example configuration as a basic starting point link:../res/config.json[exists].

== crawler
`required, type:object`

The _crawler_ object contains options for the directory traversal during search for CMake files.

=== excludePaths
`optional, type:string[]`

A list of regular expressions that match directories that shall be skipped during traversal.
Some folders like `.git` contain a lot of files but are not relevant for cmake_check, 
excluding them reduces analysis time. Also add directories that contain uninteresting
files and should be excluded from analysis like 3rd party code.

[source,json]
----
"excludePaths":[".git$", ".svn$"]
----

NOTE: TODO describe how to properly escape . and fix example
      describe how to match more segments of a path, os path separator etc.

== cRules
`required, type:Rule[]`

The collection of rules that should be applied to CMake files. At least one 
rule is required.

=== Rule
`type:object`

A rule is a logical element that describes a requirement to CMake files (an element
of a coding guideline). A rule consists of any number of checks. The rule is checked
for each input file and passes when all checks pass.

==== id
`required, type: string`

Unique identifier of the rule. The id is part of the warning message when the rule is violated.

==== appliesTo
`required, type: enum[]`

An array of file types that should be checked against the rule. Values are:

[horizontal]
CMakeLists:: CMakeLists.txt files that do not define targets. Usually these are the top-level file and 
files that exist to recurse depper into a directory tree.
TargetCMakeLists:: CMakeLists.txt files that define target(s).
CMakeModule:: A CMake module with file extension `.cmake`.

==== name
`required, type: string`

A short description of the rule.

==== enabled
`required, type: boolean`

Can be used to disable rule checks without removing them from the configuration.

==== severity
`optional, type: enum, default: warning`

One of `info`, `warning`, `error`. The severity is part of the warning output and recognized by e.g.
the Jenkins warnings plugin. It can be used to fine-tune rules e.g. errors could result in a build failure,
warnings in unstable builds and info does not affect the build at all.

An important use case is the introduction of new warnings. Usually these should not break existing builds.
Instead they can be introduced on info or warning severity. At some point in time when their number is stable,
the severity can be raised.

==== checks
`required, type: check[]`

All checks the rule consists of. The rule is considered as passed for a file when all checks of the rule pass. 
A check object consists of the following values:

===== id
`required, type: string`

The identifier of the check, see the list of link:Checks.adoc[available checks].

===== config
`required, type: object`

Parameters for the specific check, see link:Checks.adoc[checker documentation].

Commit message:

doc: document how to escape in regex

doc/Configuration.adoc, after:

:toc:
:toclevels: 4

ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
:important-caption: :heavy_exclamation_mark:
:caution-caption: :fire:
:warning-caption: :warning:
endif::[]

= The cmake_check configuration file

This document is all you need to know about what's required in your cmake_check configuration file. 
It must be actual JSON, not just a JavaScript object literal. It contains of one JSON object, its
members are described in the following sections.

As a reference, a commented JSON link:../res/config.schema.json[schema] exists.

An example configuration as a basic starting point link:../res/config.json[exists].

== crawler
`required, type:object`

The _crawler_ object contains options for the directory traversal during search for CMake files.

=== excludePaths
`optional, type:string[]`

A list of regular expressions that match directories that shall be skipped during traversal.
Some folders like `.git` contain a lot of files but are not relevant for cmake_check, 
excluding them reduces analysis time. Also add directories that contain uninteresting
files and should be excluded from analysis like 3rd party code.

[source,json]
----
"excludePaths":["\\.git$", "\\.svn$"]
----

NOTE: When a character needs to be escaped in the regular expression, 2 backslashes are needed.
      If a path under windows should be excluded, 4 backslashes are needed: `folder\\\\folder1`.

== cRules
`required, type:Rule[]`

The collection of rules that should be applied to CMake files. At least one 
rule is required.

=== Rule
`type:object`

A rule is a logical element that describes a requirement to CMake files (an element
of a coding guideline). A rule consists of any number of checks. The rule is checked
for each input file and passes when all checks pass.

==== id
`required, type: string`

Unique identifier of the rule. The id is part of the warning message when the rule is violated.

==== appliesTo
`required, type: enum[]`

An array of file types that should be checked against the rule. Values are:

[horizontal]
CMakeLists:: CMakeLists.txt files that do not define targets. Usually these are the top-level file and 
files that exist to recurse depper into a directory tree.
TargetCMakeLists:: CMakeLists.txt files that define target(s).
CMakeModule:: A CMake module with file extension `.cmake`.

==== name
`required, type: string`

A short description of the rule.

==== enabled
`required, type: boolean`

Can be used to disable rule checks without removing them from the configuration.

==== severity
`optional, type: enum, default: warning`

One of `info`, `warning`, `error`. The severity is part of the warning output and recognized by e.g.
the Jenkins warnings plugin. It can be used to fine-tune rules e.g. errors could result in a build failure,
warnings in unstable builds and info does not affect the build at all.

An important use case is the introduction of new warnings. Usually these should not break existing builds.
Instead they can be introduced on info or warning severity. At some point in time when their number is stable,
the severity can be raised.

==== checks
`required, type: check[]`

All checks the rule consists of. The rule is considered as passed for a file when all checks of the rule pass. 
A check object consists of the following values:

===== id
`required, type: string`

The identifier of the check, see the list of link:Checks.adoc[available checks].

===== config
`required, type: object`

Parameters for the specific check, see link:Checks.adoc[checker documentation].
